So, in the backward counter component
we got the same logic as in the forward counter,
but we are dedacting, here, instead of adding.
Nonetheless, we can use our custom hook here,
we just need to do something
which we often do with functions that we write.
We make them reusable and configurable,
you could say, by accepting arguments, parameters.
Just as our components receive props
and just as any function in JavaScript,
or programming in general, can accept parameters,
custom hooks, since they are just functions
can also accept parameters.
And for example, the built in useState hook
also accepts a parameter where we set the initial state.
The built in useEffect hook even accepts two parameters
where we have our EFFECT function as a first argument,
and our dependencies array as a second argument.
So, that is something which we do already, implicitly,
and which we can now also do for our custom hook.
So, which parameter could we accept here?
Well, in the end we want some indicator that controls
how the counter should be incremented.
We could accept this entire updating function, here,
to make this re-flexible.
So, here, we could have our counterUpdate function
as a parameter and then in our custom hook
just execute counterUpdate function, like this,
and expect that the argument we get here
is then a function that can be executed
which gets the previous counter and accepts the new counter.
Or, we don't make our custom hook that flexible
but instead we accept some flag, some Boolean flag, here,
which controls whether that should be a plus or a minus.
So we could, for the example,
accept forwards parameter, the name is up to you,
which is true if we wanna add
and false if we wanna subtract.
And we could even set a default value
so that this parameter is optional.
And then here, inside set interval we just check
if (forwards) if that is true
then we update setCounter, like this,
else, if it's not true we update setCounter
by well, basically, just having
the opposite logic of dedacting.
And that's the approach I will use here
but you could also accept the entire function.
Either way, we now have a new dependency here
in this effect in our custom hook
because the parameter which I'm using in here
that is a dependency.
It's not defined inside of the EFFECT function,
it's not defined outside of our custom hook
instead, it is a value that we get as a parameter, here,
and we have to add it as a dependency, therefore.
So, we should add forwards as a dependency
so that this EFFECT will rerun
whenever this dependency changes.
Of course, depending on the code we write in our components
where we use the custom hook later,
this might never change, it might always be true or false
and not change for one at the same component.
But that's fine, if it never changes
this simply never runs again.
We still have to add it as a dependency
to follow all best practices
and to ensure that if we would have a component
where useCounter is used with different values
for the argument, this EFFECT would rerun
if the argument changes.
And that makes a lot of sense, by the way,
because if we had a component
where the counter can switch between forwards and backwards
we, of course, would want to restart the counter
with the new logic if the value changed.
But that's just some site theory, here, for the moment
it doesn't matter too much.
We can just go to the backward counter
and import useCounter there as well.
By going to the hooks folder and importing it
and then in there, in the backward counter
we call useCounter and we pass false as our argument, here,
for our forwards parameter
because here we don't wanna go forwards
we gonna go backwards.
We didn't need an argument in the ForwardCounter,
there we can call like this
because we got a default value in the custom hook.
But, if we want a different value
then that default value we have to pass it.
Well, and with that, we can again extract our counter
by using that return value and then get rid of all that
other logic in the backward counter component, like this.
And if we now save that and we reload our application
we still have both counters working
but now with our custom hook.
And, of course, this was a made up example, here,
and, of course, besides the example on its own
and not being too realistic, you could definitely
also find more ways of reusing logic, here,
and working with one component
instead of two counter components,
but this was just there to introduce you to custom hooks.
Now, let's move on to a more realistic scenario
where custom hooks can really shine.